site/pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About
slug: about
---

## About This Blog

Hi! I'm Kira. This is my personal website. I write here about things I'm thinking, learning, doing, and reading. Topics vary pretty wildly, but the main ones on my mind lately are
- tech and how the industry can be a force for good instead of evil
- spirituality and what role religion can have in the pursuit of spiritual growth
- what it means to do good and live well, especially through the lens of effective altruism

## About This Website

This website is built with [dynamo](https://github.com/kiramclean/dynamo), a simple static site generator I made, and served by [netlify](https://www.netlify.com/products/build/) via [this github repo](https://github.com/kiramclean/blog). If you spot a typo or other problem you can [make an issue](https://github.com/kiramclean/blog/issues/new) there. I use the [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/) stylesheet to try to make my css behave predictably, but otherwise all the css on this website is hand-rolled and intentionally minimalist by me. I have a [style guide](/style-guide) for reference, with a sampling of all the elements found on this website.

## About Analytics and Privacy

I consider tracking what people do around the internet to be virtual stalking and believe it should be illegal, just like stalking someone in real life is. I use [Fathom analytics](https://usefathom.com/) on this website so that I can tell which posts are popular, because that influences my decisions about what to write (sometimes). Fathom is a company that [hates surveillance](https://usefathom.com/blog/privacy-matters-2021), like I do, and they only collect anonymous statistics about what pages are visited and from where; basically it's a hit counter. I do not and will never try to stalk you around the internet.

## About Me

I write software for a living, mostly in [Clojure](https://clojure.org/), and spend most of my time in Montreal, Canada. I work from home and love travelling when possible. I often spend many months of the year in other places. I love warm weather, but have only Canadian citizenship so I'm perpetually seeking sunny destinations that are safe, welcoming, and affordable.

I love hearing from people and talking about what's on my mind, i.e. the kind of stuff I write about here. You can find me on twitter as [@kiraemclean](https://twitter.com/kiraemclean) or email me at [contact@kiramclean.com](mailto:contact@kiramclean.com).

Commit message:

add dark mode colours and credit Benjy for style guide idea
closes #4

site/pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About
slug: about
---

## About This Blog

Hi! I'm Kira. This is my personal website. I write here about things I'm thinking, learning, doing, and reading. Topics vary pretty wildly, but the main ones on my mind lately are
- tech and how the industry can be a force for good instead of evil
- spirituality and what role religion can have in the pursuit of spiritual growth
- what it means to do good and live well, especially through the lens of effective altruism

## About This Website

This website is built with [dynamo](https://github.com/kiramclean/dynamo), a simple static site generator I made, and served by [netlify](https://www.netlify.com/products/build/) via [this github repo](https://github.com/kiramclean/blog). If you spot a typo or other problem you can [make an issue](https://github.com/kiramclean/blog/issues/new) there. I use the [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/) stylesheet to try to make my css behave predictably, but otherwise all the css on this website is hand-rolled and intentionally minimalist by me. I have a [style guide](/style-guide) for reference, with a sampling of all the elements found on this website. The styles and the idea for a style guide where I can see how everything looks in one place are inspired by a great designer I've had the pleasure of working with, [Benjy Stanton](https://www.benjystanton.co.uk/).

## About Analytics and Privacy

I consider tracking what people do around the internet to be virtual stalking and believe it should be illegal, just like stalking someone in real life is. I use [Fathom analytics](https://usefathom.com/) on this website so that I can tell which posts are popular, because that influences my decisions about what to write (sometimes). Fathom is a company that [hates surveillance](https://usefathom.com/blog/privacy-matters-2021), like I do, and they only collect anonymous statistics about what pages are visited and from where; basically it's a hit counter. I do not and will never try to stalk you around the internet.

## About Me

I write software for a living, mostly in [Clojure](https://clojure.org/), and spend most of my time in Montreal, Canada. I work from home and love travelling when possible. I often spend many months of the year in other places. I love warm weather, but have only Canadian citizenship so I'm perpetually seeking sunny destinations that are safe, welcoming, and affordable.

I love hearing from people and talking about what's on my mind, i.e. the kind of stuff I write about here. You can find me on twitter as [@kiraemclean](https://twitter.com/kiraemclean) or email me at [contact@kiramclean.com](mailto:contact@kiramclean.com).
